---
layout: post
title:  "Beginner's Tutorial: How to add a sidebar archive to Jekyll"
date:   2015-12-12 11:57:55 +0100
author: Ewout
categories: ['Default', 'Lifestyle', 'update']
tags: ['sample', 'banana']
image: blog-image.jpg
image-caption: Just testing
---

Here's how I added my nifty sidebar in tutorial format!

Iterate over `site.posts`, which gives you the posts in a reverse chronological order. Then you should
deal with the following cases:

 - **The first post** 
   - Start a new year, and a new month.
 - **The post's year and month are equal, or its the first post**
   - insert the post *(the first post condition is there just in case you haven't posted for a month! `;)` )*
 - **The post's year is the same, but the month is different**
   - Close the current month, start a new one and insert the post.
 - **The post's year is different**
   - Close the current month and year, and start a new year and month, then insert the post.
<!--more-->
Then, at the end, store the year and month of the processed post and the loop starts again!

{% highlight html%}
{% raw %}
{% assign currentYear = site.time | date: "%Y" %}
{% assign currentMonth = site.time | date: "%B" %}
{% for post in site.posts %}
    
    {% assign postYear = post.date | date: "%Y" %}
    {% assign postMonth = post.date  | date: "%B" %}
    
    {% if forloop.first %}
    <li> {{ postYear}}
        <ul>
            <li> {{ postMonth }}
                <ul>
    {% endif %}
    
    {% if (postYear == currentYear and postMonth == currentMonth) or forloop.first %}
        <li><a href="{{ post.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">{{ post.title }}</a></li>
    {% endif %}
    
    {% if postYear == currentYear and postMonth != currentMonth %}
        </ul></li>
        <li> {{ postMonth }}
            <ul>
                <li><a href="{{ post.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">{{ post.title }}</a></li>
    {% endif %}
    
    {% if postYear != currentYear %}
        </ul></li></ul></li>
            <li> {{ postYear}}
                <ul>
                    <li> {{ postMonth }}
                        <ul>
                            <li><a href="{{ post.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">{{ post.title }}</a></li>
    {% endif %}
    {% assign currentYear = postYear %}
    {% assign currentMonth = postMonth %}
{% endfor %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

Next you can add some [bootstrap collapse magic](http://getbootstrap.com/javascript/#collapse) in order to make the years and months collapsible.

{% include blog-image.html name='blog-image' side='right' %} 

If you change the elements with `class="collapse"` to have `class="collapse in"` they will
be open and not collapsed when the page loads. I used that to have the latest month open up (in the first post condition).
 
And that's it! It can be done like this because `site.posts` gives you the posts in reverse chronological order. It wouldn't work if you want to 
order them by tags or something else other than time.
